Alone.
Welcome back.
Of course it might improve in the tutorial.
We learned how to create lists but now how do we read information from lists.
Because what's the point of storing data if you cannot access it right.
So in today's Tauriel we'll have a look at the square brackets operator so that we will know how to
access our lists.
Let's go ahead and get started.
So let's create a list.
We'll call it this list w and this list will store the family values a lowercase the lowercase c d and
e.
All right so like a mini start of the alphabet.
Run that's a key.
There it is our list.
Now how do we access elements that say I want to get letter A out of this list.
How do I get there.
Well as we spoke previously lists have indexation So we know that this is a sequence of elements that
are ordered that are numbered.
This one is always 0.
This is 1 2 3 and 4.
So let's go ahead and type in and double you and in square brackets 0 as simple as that.
That gives us element with the starting element.
It's always number 0 and it's values.
A cell is the current w one that gives us element B W to C and so on.
So another thing we want to explore here is how do we find out how many elements are in the list and
Towler.
So here we can see that there is five.
But what if it's a very big list and we want to get an element at the very end how do we know how many
they are.
There's a couple of ways to do that.
One way is to use the land operator.
So if you or the line function if you use the line function on your list it will return the number of
elements the total number of elements.
So basically you want to access the last one you would say double you you wouldn't say five because
then you get an error.
You don't have five elements.
You have five elements but there are exceptions Circes 0 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 is the total number of elements
.
But the last one will always have lenth minus one.
That's what its index will be.
So you would say W4 to get the last one.
All right.
And there's another way to do this.
What's the other way.
Well we can use negative indexation So let's say let's print out a list there is.
And the way this list is indexed right now is zero here.
Then this is one.
This is two to three.
This is for.
Well the other way these lists are also indexed is through negative indexation and how does that book
.
Well the very last element is minus one.
So not minus zero because there's no such thing as mine is zero.
So a bit different to the normal indexation you can't it actually start at minus 1 at the very end.
Here's minus two.
Here it is minus three minus four here and minus five at the start.
So we can use this indexation as well so if we say double you minus one we will get the element E.
So that's the last one and we say w minus X W minus 3 we'll get and see this one so w minus 3 is exactly
identical to W2.
And notice here that for instance w minus 1 this is different behavior to see if you're coming from
our.
I'd hope to keep bringing up are a lot so if you haven't studied our it might sound a bit strange but
nevertheless the reason is because the data science is right now centered on a lot of the work and our
science is happening in our and python.
A lot of people aim to learn both languages.
If you ever do learn art you can always come back to this course and look at these comments later on
as well.
So in our what this would do is it would exclude the first element to it would say.
All right so you want the whole.
In that case vector except for this first element because in are they do get indexed at once so it basically
would look for the index and exclude that index and return the rest of the vector.
So just bear in mind that the behavior is different in Python when you specify a negative index.
It just uses this negative annexation that exists in your list and it then picks up the elements based
on that.
So there we go that's how negative indexation works in Python.
And one more thing I wanted to show you is how you can over right values.
So you can actually specify elements of illis to have different values.
Let's look at W there is a b c d or you can say w element number two and you get a value of for example
63.
Now if you look at W. you'll see that we replaced the value we actually overwrote the value of that
element.
So there we go that's how we work with lists and pi then we can we now know how to create them how to
change their values and how to read values out of lists.
And from here I encourage you to explore explore the programming language and try to see what happens
if you specify different values so what happens.
For instance if you specify a value here that is greater than the number of elements in a list or if
you specify a very large negative value here.
See what happens if you try to create two lists and then the right values from one end to another and
just play around.
Ask yourself different questions ask questions inside the course if you need to and explore because
ultimately programming is not just about learning a theory and doing some defined practical exercises
it's also about exploring making mistakes learning from those mistakes.
Understanding how the programming language works and then exploring further and further and actually
there's a great talk on Ted.
So Ted Talks I kind of like Ted talks and one of them was very inspiring a lot of them are very inspiring
actually but one that relates to this topic of exploring is called Lee cometary So it's spelt I g l
y g o m e t r y and I actually brought this up in our programming course and a student later message
me that this talk really influenced his life and after washing it he has a different perception of learning
things.
So if you have some time definitely check it out.
It's by I mean too funny.
He works at Singularity University and some other places as well in the U.S. and it's very interesting
talks about measuring so Lego is darkness.
So what we don't know a metric is measuring.
So it's about measuring what we don't know.
So learning through understanding what we don't know and trying to learn that's very inspiring talk
.
Check it out if you have some time.
And otherwise I encourage you to experiment with bison and I'll see you next time.
Until then happy coding
.